Hi, guys, in this lesson, we will implement the automatic service, like we said before, in spring
server side, we can also say it in angular.
There is a cycle in model.
We have control structure.
First of all, this model classes, these classes will be are classes to describe data and to serve
the data later called model classes from services.
This will be our business logic.
Layer finally calls services from components and components.
We'll display model classes.
So in the previous lessons we describe our model classes.
In this lesson we will call them from service and we will relate them with our server side with rest
API requests as service is basically a class which can be used by multiple components.
We can use a service for multiple purposes, for example, to outsource some code which you want to
use in multiple components.
Or we will do here to manage our data in one global place where than multiple pieces or spots in our
application have access to it.
So this is how we can use such a service.
Now I will create our first service class for authentication methods like login, register and logout.
We can create service class with the ng, generate comment or comment, will be ng, generate
service and service name.
Our service name will be authentication, but I'll create it under the service folder so I'll specify
it like services slash authentication and it will create our service class.
When we look at the created service class, we will see an important decorator that is injectable,
the injectable decorator's specifies that angular can use this class in the dependency injection system.
The metadata provided in the root means that the authentication service is visible throughout the application.
So to use it from a component, we only need to inject it from the components constructor.
Then we can use it like we want.
OK, now our authentication service template is ready for an authentication service.
We will connect to the backend and then we can send login or register requests.
But first of all, to connect the server, we need the servers.
URL So first of all, we should describe the URL of the server.
We can describe it in the service class directly.
But this won't be a good choice because in that case, for each service we should repeat the URL again
and again to describe it, ANGULAR provides environments in environments.
We can describe such kind of variables, then we can use them globally.
Also, we can use environments separately for development environments and production environments so
we can go with localhost as eurorail on development mode and in production mode.
We can go with cloud URL.
These angular environments provides these for us.
Now let's create our base yuren under the environment that yes, we can set it for production also,
but for now we can set it as null, then we can hook up with it.
By the way, in default, angular works with environment dot ts file to go with environment.
dot prod dot ts we should configure our project in production.
What we will see the details in the next lessons.
OK, now we can call the environment variable from the authentication service and we can describe our
authentication service and point as a variable.
By the way, this end point will be the same with the purpose of authentication controller in the server
side, because in this service, we want to implement authentication endpoints.
OK, now we can implement the register and login pages, but before implementing them, I should mention
some important things.
First one is I want to store user credentials on cache after login operation.
So how can we handle this process?
I want to talk about this.
Second one is after login operation.
The whole application should be aware of it.
So somehow I should notify the whole application.
So how can we handle this process?
Also, I want to talk about it also third one is
I also need a logout operation to clear the user from cache and for logout operation.
I should also notify the whole application.
Now, let's start with the first problem to store this sign in user, we can use local storage, local
storage works on browsers.
We can store it value or an object as string, then we can read it easily when we store in the browser.
If me refresh the page, data will still be accessible because browser stores in application stores,
if we close the current session, it doesn't effect from the session because it is based on application
so we can handle our cash problem with local storage.
Our second problem is somehow we should notify the whole application after logging operation to handle
it.
We can use observable in angular observable comes with the RXJS library by default in angular with
observables.
Listeners can subscribe to the event and then are notified since the event, these listeners catch the
event easily.
Now let's check it for our case.
For our case, first of all, we will register the application.
Then we will have a user account.
Then with this user account, we will sign in the application, then we sign in.
We will start the login result as an event to other listeners.
We will say that hey there, I sign in the application and I notify you with these parameters so we can
solve our modification problem with observable.
Our third problem is somehow we should look out from the application and the application should know
it.
Actually, it will be the same with the second step in this set up.
We will send the notification as null parameter with observable.
We will say that hey listeners, I am not valid anymore so we can solve our second problem with observable
also.
No, we can implement them one by one.
First of all, I will create a public accessible current user variable as observable, like I said before,
because I will call it from other components and I will use it to reactively update when a user log
in or and secondly, I'll create current user subject.
It will be an emitter for current user.
What I mean here, somehow I should omit the current user value over an emitter so that emitter will
be behavior subject the behavior subject host to value that needs to be shared with other components.
Now we can implement the constructor.
First of all, we will call rest and points from the server side.
So we need the HTTP module, HTTP module.
We'll handle, get post put and delete HTTP requests, but to use HTTP module we should import it on the
app.
That module, the module of the HTTP client is HTTP client module.
We will import it to the app module typescript class, then we will provide it.
Now we can return back to the authentication service.
Then, like I said before, we will store the current user in the cache.
So to store it, we will benefit from the local storage level storage after login operation and and
we will read it on initial.
If it exists, we will set it to the current user object.
And we will notify the application on the initial case.
So we will check the current user in the local storage, and if it does exist, we will send it to the
emitter, we can take the object from the emitter with as observable function behavior subject can be
easily listened to or subscribed by other components.
So if there is any update on Behaviour's subject, others will be notified immediately.
Now, our first method will be to get the current user value from behavior subject asynchronous.
This will be a public accessible function before we created the current user variable to get it as observable.
That will provide asynchronous access.
Now we are going to create a function to get it synchronously.
Our second method will be the login method in this function.
We will send the sign in request with the user credentials, we can reach the user credentials from
user object because the user object has password and username fields.
By the way, all our HTTP request will be observable
because we will send the request and we will wait for the response tanks to observe, but then we will
send a post request and the API endpoint will be API authentication.
Sign in and we will send the user object as form data.
After the login request.
We shall intercept the response because we should set the current user observable object to intercept
the request.
We can use the pipe function of HTTP request.
Then we will map the response to map the response.
Our access provides the map function so we can use it easily.
Why RXJS?
Because it is an observable result and observable comes from RXJS.
If there is a response that comes from login operation, we will set it to local storage, so we will
store it in the cash to store it in the local storage.
We should trap it with this string because in the local storage we can store data in string format.
Then we will notify the emitter so we can do it by assigning the response to behavior subject.
So this will provide the caching and notification.
OK, now our logging function is ready.
Our other methods will be registered to register.
We will send post requests to the server site with a predefined rest API.
We will send a user object as a parameter.
Our registration based API part is API authentication.
Sign up.
And we will send the user object as a form data.
Our last method will be logout in this function.
We will clear the storage and we will notify the application as a cleared user.
We don't need to send a request to the server side.
Because we don't use sessions on the server side to log out, we remove the user from the local storage
and we notify the emitter with the empty user.
OK, that's all about the authentication service implementation.
Thank you.